today on the program the following three
stories about the Israel Hamas War at
least 50 people are dead after Israel
targeted a senior Hamas leader in a
refugee
camp the father of a victim of the Hamas
terror attack calls for prime minister
Benjamin netanyahu's
resignation and we ask if the events of
October 7 have ended the viability of
the two-state
solution but first the Rafa border
crossing in Gaza was opened on Wednesday
to allow some critically injured people
to be evacuated to Egypt foreign
passport holders were also being allowed
to exit Gaza through the crossing the
move comes after Qatar brokered a deal
between Hamas Israel and Egypt which
controls the
crossing and we asked journalist Hugh
miles in Cairo if there were signs that
Egyptian officials could allow more
civilians in from
Gaza no um the president CC and the uh
other senior Egyptian officials have
made it repeatedly clear that there is
absolutely no way that they are going to
allow in uh large numbers of of
Palestinians uh into to North Sinai this
is a red line for the Egyptian
authorities um and they have repeated
this um you know for for internal
political reasons historical reasons um
there is just no way that the president
CCE can allow um massive amounts of
people to come out and and he's made
that perfectly
clear meanwhile Israel has bombed one of
gaza's biggest refugee camps killing at
least 50 people and wounding hundreds
more Israel says a senior Hamas
Commander was targeted and killed in the
strike on the jabalia camp and that some
of the militant groups underground
tunnel complex was
destroyed searching for survivors after
Israel struck the largest refugee camp
in
Gaza the strikes left two massive
craters in the crowd of jabalia camp
videos from the scene showed more than
45 bodies recovered from the
rubble may God have mercy on
them to God we belong and to him we will
return intercede for
us God is
great we die as martyrs alhamdulillah
may God give me
patience the casualties have overwhelmed
the nearby
hospital a large number of injured have
come to us after the explosion That
Shook the entire jbala Refuge Camp they
were targeted while in their homes
children all Martyrs children women
elderly we have no idea what to do there
are injured people
everywhere Israel's military has
confirmed it struck the camp which is a
shelter for Palestinians displaced after
the 1948 War but said the operation
targeted and killed a Hamas
Commander tonight we eliminated the
murderous terrorist Ibrahim barari since
the IDF forces entered Gaza barari has
been the main combat leader in the
northern Gaza Strip he also had a part
in the massacre on October 7th in his
assassination many terrorists were
killed those who stayed with him in the
building and in the underground area
below the damage to bari's building
collapsed additional buildings because
there was a wide ground infrastructure
in jabalia made to carry out terrorist
operations against our forces the entire
infrastru collapsed and many terrorists
were
killed another refugee camp the nsat
camp was hit in an unrelated strike the
Hamas controlled Gaza Health Ministry
says more than 8 and a half thousand
people have been killed since Israel
launched its
war and that more than 3,000 of them are
children Gaza has become a graveyard for
children it's a living hell for everyone
else and yet the threats to children go
beyond bombs and mortars child deaths to
dehydration particularly infant deaths
to dehydration
are a growing
threat the UN agency says water
shortages are affecting access to clean
water for more than a million children
the World Health Organization has
meanwhile warned of critical shortages
at
hospitals surgeries cannot happen
without anesthesia in fact they do
happen without
anesthesia um it's an imminent Public
Health catastrophe that Looms with the
mass displacement the overcrowding the
damage to water and sanitation
infrastructure Aid organizations say the
deliveries of vital supplies cannot take
place without the security guarantees of
a humanitarian
pause and DW's Ben fulan in Jerusalem
told us more about what Israel has been
saying about its strike in the middle of
the crowded jabalia refugee
camp Israel is justifying this by saying
that it has knocked out one of the key
Hamas commanders uh the commander who is
said to have prepared and also executed
the
october7 attacks uh hus denies that any
uh senior official was in the camp at
the time of this air strike uh it also
justifies this by saying that dozens of
combatants were killed in the same
tunnels that collapsed under the air
strikes um the IDF uh gave out that
statement earlier um say saying that
many reports of Civilian deaths were a
result of this attack now we're not
getting exact numbers from them the
numbers we're getting from the
Palestinian Health Ministry in the
control Gaza Strip is uh somewhere
around 50 Palestinians they don't uh
usually um say whether or not these are
civilians or combatants in this case uh
150 wounded humus itself interestingly
enough is saying 400
Dead uh so huge discrepancies here and
you can really tell um for the first
time when we had this Hospital blast uh
just recently the Al Ali Hospital uh
there were real doubts about whether or
not the health Ministry in controlled
Gaza was giving accurate numbers because
they came out so quickly after the
attack um in past conflicts they have
been known to line up with Israeli
estimates um in this case today what
we're hearing is a huge discrepancy
between Hamas and the health Ministry in
Gaza and more than a million people have
fled to the south of Gaza after Israel
warned them to move for their safety
thousands are Sheltering in makeshift
refugee camps and with very little Aid
coming in many in these tent camps are
living without basic necessities like
clean water clothing and
medicines this is their first cooked
meal in weeks Muhammad Zaki and his
family left their home in central Gaza
to head south for their
safety they found shelter here at this
newly formed camp in the city of Khan
yunas Muhammad Zaki has now started
selling tea to earn money to
live the camp only has a limited supply
of water and it has to be boiled to make
it safe for drinking
thank God we are in our country in Gaza
our
homeland but the situation over the past
22 days from bombing destruction
homelessness hunger is very bad we heat
water on Fires cook on
Fires find wood here and
there we buy water for 50 US cents we
don't have mattresses or anything in our
tents in our family we have women
children and men but without
anything this makeshift settlement like
many others has no power or
Internet Camp residents have to adapt to
the limited resources
available and find whatever work they
can after leaving everything
behind I used to own own a shop but it
was bombed it was bombed from the second
day and after I came to the hospital
here I took my kit with me the original
kit was broken this is an alternative
kit using a phone charger for the razor
I connected them and used them thank
God for some simple everyday acts have
become a source of
comfort we've been living in destruction
and Bing for 23 days we are here to
shave in order to change our mood our
beards and hair grew long we are waiting
for God's mercy not for Arabs or anyone
else to do anything no one will stand by
our
side here for many life has come to a
standstill and with no sign of the
hostilities ending these tents could be
their only homes for a long time
influential Israeli entrepreneur AEL
valdman is calling on prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu to resign the
businessman made headlines when his
former tech company became the first
Israeli firm to hire Palestinian
Engineers DW correspondent Ben fulan met
Waltman who is one of many Israelis to
lose a family member in the attack by
Hamas this is Danielle and no and Jesse
I'm at the high-rise home of a vman in
Tel Aviv his 24-year-old daughter was
killed on October 7th with her boyfriend
Noam Shay he shared with me their story
Danielle and Noam they're amazing kids
like really uh loved having fun doing
stuff and uh enjoying
[Music]
life and then on Friday they decided to
go to this party of Freedom love and
peace the Supernova festival with a lot
of music DJs and so on so they brought
their dog to her mother said we'll come
Saturday morning to pick her up they
went down south they were in the party
and then uh those creatures came from
Gaza and started uh slaughtering
raping cutting Parts taking eyes out
doing awful things things to all those
uh people and Danielle no and her
friends got in a car got out of the
party they went South which probably
would have been smart uh because most
the kids turned North and uh it was more
free uh but then three terorists from
behind show them we saw I we found the
car we've seen a Trails of three
kalachnikov shells from behind shooting
at the car we found like a Gaza SUV a
Toyota SUV about 150 M north of them
with three buddies one out of the car
and two inside and then we found a
motorcycle south of them so they really
couldn't escape and they were shot out
of the five we think one ex
hostage and four
dead how are you processing things first
of all it's difficult um I think losing
a son or a daughter is something no one
should experience
and unfortunately we're experiencing now
after the murder of Danielle and her
boyfriend n it's uh definitely a very
difficult time for my ex-wife Danielle's
mother her brother and sister and for me
as well but you not only lost a daughter
you also lost a a potential son-in-law
yes they were talking about getting
married and unfortunately that wouldn't
happen you know my ex-wife I think two
or 3 days ago said that she had a dream
of Danielle in a in a wedding dress I
was really painful because this will
never happen then will never wear a
wedding dress and instead of doing a
wedding we buried them together we had a
funeral your opinion what went wrong
from the Israeli side oh we completely
messed up I
mean just amazingly how messed up we
were so our intelligence
failed uh our Communications failed so
this wasn't just uh a failure of of
surveillance but also on a political
level obviously there is responsibility
on the government on the prime minister
no doubt they should definitely
resign shamefully and uh remove their
places so what's next I hope that after
this crisis that we went through after
the murder of Danielle and no that is an
amazing sacrifice an unbelievable pain
we will be able to do something and and
create peace but only after destroying
Hamas and Islamic Jihad and making sure
that the people that have done what
they've done are eliminated from this
place is what what sort of world would
you like them to have
experienced you know a world of Peace a
world of Freedom you know I think Gaza
citizens do not deserve what they're
going through now Gaza citizens should
be free should be celebrating should
have amazing hotels on the beach they
have amazing beaches there have been
there multiple times they should have
amazing agriculture they should have
amazing things Hamas and Islamic Jihad
are responsible for what Gaza is now in
2005 when we left there were a lot of
Agriculture tourism other infrastructure
they've destroyed everything and went to
war with us I hope now after this they
and we will help them rebuild this to
really build an area where we can live
together in synergistic relationships
both economic and tourism and whatever
and uh build a great two states for the
two
people thank you very much thank
you a two-state Arrangement has been
touted as a solution to the long-running
conflict between Israel and the
Palestinians it was suggested at the UN
in the late 40s and just last week US
President Joe Biden reiterated his
support for it so what exactly is the
two-state solution and what are the
challenges around its implementation
here's a quick
explainer Decades of violence and
occupation how could they end an
independent Palestinian State alongside
Israel has long been considered the
solution today the Palestinian
territories are largely under Israeli
control a Palestinian state would mean
full sovereignty and the end of Israeli
occupation the promise
self-determination for the Palestinians
and security for Israelis who have long
contended they live under constant
threat of terrorism and attacks here are
three of the big
problems around 700,000 Israeli settlers
live in the West Bank and East Jerusalem
illegally according to the UN and
international law it's difficult to
imagine them leaving without
resistance then there is Jerusalem
Israel has annexed the eastern part of
the city it hosts both judaism's holiest
site and the third most important site
for Islam Israelis and Palestinians
claim the city as their capital and
reject ideas like International control
30 years ago there was at least the will
to try and get over those
problems but the peace efforts were
undermined by extremists on both sides
violence made new talks impossible so
the crucial problems remained unsolved
after years of occupation many terrorist
attacks and retaliatory strikes only a
minority of Israelis and Palestinians
continue to believe in a two-state
solution since the Hamas terrorist
attack on October 7th
20123 it seems further away than
ever Hamas mentioned there controls the
Gaza Strip while the Fatal Palestinian
Authority runs the West Bank both
parties have been Arch Rivals since
Hamas violently ousted fata from the
Gaza Strip after winning elections there
in 2006 fata leader mmud Abbas is
recognized internationally as president
of the Palestinian Authority but in
recent years his legitimacy has been
increasingly questioned at
home fata is the largest secular
Palestinian political party it's also
the driving force of the Palestine
Liberation Organization or PLO the
umbrella group internationally
recognized as representing the
Palestinian
people the current PLO chairman is
fata's leader Mahmud Abbas he's also the
president of the Palestinian Authority
which governs parts of the occupied West
Bank the Palestinian Authority doesn't
govern Gaza the islamist militant group
Hamas took over in Gaza after 2006
elections and kicked fata out of the
territory Mahmud Abbas was one of the
activists who helped form fata at the
end of the 19 1950s initially it focused
on militant opposition to the Israeli
government however in the 1980s fata
shifted towards diplomacy former fat
leader and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat
became an important player in the Oslo
Accords this was a peace deal signed
between Israel and the Palestinians that
proposed a two-state solution fata still
supports this and recognizes the state
of Israel unlike Hamas fata's vision is
an independent pal Palestine made up of
the West Bank East Jerusalem and Gaza
this is based on the borders established
after the 6-day war in
1967 but there's been little progress on
that front which has led to frustration
among Palestinians and since Israel
militarily occupies the West Bank and
has annexed East Jerusalem many are
losing faith in the fata controlled
Palestinian Authority they see the PA as
complicit in the occupation and reject
its
legitimacy there's also uncertainty over
the Palestinian Authority's future its
aging leader mmud abbass was elected in
2005 to a 4-year term elections have not
been held since his party fata has also
been dealing with infighting over who
his successor should be frustration has
led to Palestinians seeking
Alternatives in recent times Hamas has
seen a rise in support this is adding to
the pressure on fat
now questions are mounting over the role
it will play as the Israel Hamas War
rages in
Gaza and joining me now for more is Dr
RI kri from mfim the Israeli Institute
for regional foreign policies Dr Krick
welcome I have one basic question for
you and that is this is the two-state
solution
dead a concise answer no it's not dead
on the contrary now even There's an
opportunity to to revive
it you talk about Reviving it and you
you you talk about Reviving it uh who
has to take the first step here to try
and revive it and how does this revival
occur well if Israel wish to um
terminate the Kamas rule in Gaza the
only one who can take responsibility
over the Gaza
which is not um um the Israeli uh force
would be the Palestinians themselves uh
the interest of Israel and of the
Palestinians or the moderate one is that
the Palestinian Authority or any other
moderate Palestinian leadership would
take the responsibility over Gaza the
only way a moderate Palestinian would
enter Gaza and take responsibility and
gain legitimization if it becomes it
comes with a Palestinian state recognize
Palestinian State at the end of the
process so there is an opportunity now
if you wish to terminate the
Kamas uh to revive the two-state pal
two- State solution that that's a big
step and I know that that's what the
stated aim of the Israeli operation in
Gaza is but what you're basically saying
to me is that Hamas first needs to go
and then a moderate Palestinian
leadership takes the space in the Gaza
Strip and then potenti
one has an Israeli one has a Palestinian
side that one can talk to is that what
you're essentially saying to
me actually not exactly because what I
would like to say is that you cannot
terminate Hamas rule over the Gaza Strip
or anyway terminate Hamas as a terror
organization
without um a political um solution a
diplomatic solution at the end of it you
cannot do that the only way to uh
terminate Hamas rule over Gaza and and
its and its strength also in the in the
West Bank is by uh proposing an
alternative and the alternative at the
end of it at the end of the process is a
viable Palestinian State who recognized
the Israel and wish to live side by
side okay you know there has been
criticism there has been criticism
within Israel already of uh prime
minister netanyahu's government and
particularly uh that his government has
taken steps to well let's say either
sidestep the two-state solution or not
pursue it in with as much Vigor as
potentially people might have expected
that to happen if that has been the
record so far what leads you to believe
that from the Israeli side at least
under this government there will be a
pursuit of the two-state
solution well uh the description is
right K's government chose to manage the
conflict and uh even to strengthen Hamas
in order not to pursue the two-state
solution in order to hinder it so this
current government of Isel would not be
the one who would promote uh a political
solution it would not pursue any kind of
two-state solution thus it would have to
be other forces in the in the arena to
promote it International Community the
United States
the Israel new friends in the in the
neighborhood from Saudi Arabia or Egypt
Jordan or government in Israel otherwise
no you cannot expect that from nany's
government but doesn't a lot of this
depend on how the current Israeli
campaign in Gaza runs as to what uh
measures its success and what ultimately
happens to the Hamas
leadership it does currently the Israel
government pushed aside any kind of
discussion about the day after thus you
cannot even measure the success of the
campaign in Gaza because you don't know
where you want to go so if you don't
know where you want to go how can you
measure what you do and how can you
decide if what you're doing is is the
right thing to do so first you have to
decide where you want to go and then you
can measure if you if what you do is
successful or not uh and this is the
situation now so it's it's hard to to
imagine and to think if what you're
doing is effective if you don't know
what you want to achieve at the end how
much support is there within the Israeli
public to pursue the two-state solution
given the atrocities and the horror that
we have witnessed on the 7th of
October well it it it is hard know
because now everyone is shaking but also
uh consensual
prits are have been shaken as well so if
you have an political actors who push
the
narrative and explain the Israeli public
that in order to fight Hamas in order to
terminate his rule in Gaza and
everywhere you have to have at the end a
pales inian functional strong State side
by side next to Israel then it is
something that the Israeli public would
be able to
hear because that but you have to have
an you have to have an actors that
promote this narrative and
otherwise it would be hard to convince
the Republic to go to such Avenue take
such Avenue we'll leave it there for the
timing but thank you so much for joining
us today Dr Ro kri from MIM thank you
sir thank you thank you for
inviting and that's it for now this
continuing updates on the Israel Hamas
war on our website I'm bsh pan in Berlin
thanks very much for
[Music]
watching